	The blind spot of science, in my opinion, is one of the most interesting. but also most dangerous, aspects of everything that we know. We categorize, place into boxes, into labels, and this is something we must do to advance science. There really is no other way to do it.  

	However, while this process is necessary, it is also necessary that we must not forget what we’ve taken as fact. We constantly make the error of mistaking the name of the thing for what it really is. 

	Wittgenstein, in his famous Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, 1921, states ‘Nothing in the visual field allows you to infer that it is seen by an eye.’ 

	The eye is the invisible condition of seeing. In the same vein, the knower is the invisible condition of knowing. The tool is the invisible condition of the observation. The clock is the invisible condition of time. The map is the invisible condition of (space?) (orientation?).  
	
	In the history of knowledge, I do think there are specific points in which the tool, what will soon become invisible, is clearly there right before it vanishes. For example Galileo Galilei mathematized natural phenomena. He put a quantifiable scientific method (which was taught to him by Vincenzo Galilei, his father) to what we previously attributed to God’s unquestionable handiwork. By doing this, he created something tangible for us to compute and dispute, and therein lies his genius. However, by doing this he also squeezes reality into boxes of ideal variables. Everything became only valid when it could either fit or equal to or create these ideal boxes. This allowed more and more sciences to advance and become more robust, and slowly built a foundation which more knowledge could be built and the foundation grows higher and higher, with much less teetering, because of the rigidity of those boxes. 

	However, what comes after this is a world of scientists who are mistaking the ideal, quantifiable version of the phenomena to be the phenomena itself. Science grows more and more efficient, more robust, more prolific, the better the quantities fit into each other, but also, a large part of the phenomena being studied gets lost, and the human connection to the phenomena becomes untethered and disoriented. 
	
	Objectivity is a way to advance the science, but let’s be aware that it cannot really be truly objective. Whatever the phenomena is is bent, skewed, slightly shaved, because of what is used to measure it or understand it. Of course! Can we really be so self absorbed to believe our limited mathematical tools, or our digital representations, can measure the movement of heavenly bodies? How can we trust our devices as much as we do?
	How can we trust cameras? Maps? Limitations are the condition of understanding. So we cannot see anything outside of the blind spots. 

	However, what we can do, and what we should do, is examine the blind spots as well as we can. Let’s go back to Wittgenstein’s ‘nothing in the visual field allows you to infer that it is seen by an eye.’ I disagree with this, as do many others. There is a way to infer that it is seen by an eye. You could close your eyes, and everything would turn black, and then you’d know that your eyes are being used. You could observe someone else. You could try seeing with your nose, for example, and then work by the process of elimination to get to your eye. You could look in the mirror and observe. You could ask someone with no eyes at all and ask if they could see.

	In these ways, you are inferring that you are seeing with your eyes. With other blind spots, could the same thing work? 

	The way we’ve structured science is through inductive reasoning, which is an argument that applies the past to the future. We do this to clarify mysteries. We examine life in hindsight, and then try our best to apply it forwards. A forgotten side effect of this wonderful scientific process is that it works so well - it clarifies so much abiguiuty - but perhaps too well, where there is no wonder or mystery left at all.
	
	‘The clock is the invisible condition of time’. So let’s examine time by changing the clock.

	continue...